How to use ExperimentalConditions

ExperimentalConditions_## (## is the user's initials) is a .csv file.
It has two goals:
1) Keep a trace of all of the relevant conditions that characterize your experiments.
2) Be read by the python code that will use the data here to perform the analysis.

Here is a description column by column.
NB: Incorrectly filling a column used by the analysis will leads to analysis error. The other columns can be useful for subsequent data wrangling.

> tags - text - not used by the analysis
Just a list of tags for you to qualify the experiment.

> date - text - not used by the analysis
Identify the date of your experiment.

> manip - text - not used by the analysis
Identify the manipId of your experiment. Each distinct set of conditions on a given day must have a distinct manipId. Example: for date 23-02-28 you have one pop of cells with no drug and one pop of cells treated with Y27. You will put 2 lines in the table, manip = 'M1' with drug = 'none' and manip = 'M2' with drug = 'Y27'.

> experimentType - text - used by the analysis
Identify the type of experiment you performed. Default is 'constant field'. If you develop a new experimental protocol requiring a different kind of tracking and analysis, please contact me.

> drug - text - not used by the analysis
Identify the drug treatment. Default is 'none'.

> concentration - float - not used by the analysis
Identify the drug concentration, in µM. Default is '0.0'.

> substrate - text - not used by the analysis
Identify the substrate state.

> cell type - text - not used by the analysis
Identify the cell type.

> cell subtype - text - not used by the analysis
Identify the cell subtype.

> bead type - text - used by the analysis
Identify the bead type. Default is M450.

> bead diameter - integer - used by the analysis
Identify the bead diameter in nm. Need to be determined from a calibration for each batch of beads ordered.

> normal field - float - used by the analysis
Uniform magnetic field applied to the chamber during the experiment, in mT. It is the target field. The real one can differ.

> magnetic field correction - float - used by the analysis
Corrective multiplicative coefficient to 'normal field' to take into account the actual magnetic field of the experiment. Example: one does an experiment with a constant field at 5mT. At the end of the experiment, one measures with a gaussmeter than the field was actually 5.1 mT. The 'magnetic field correction' will be 5.1 / 5 = 1.02.

> multi images - integer - used by the analysis
Number of Z-planes acquired per timepoint. Acquiring several Z-planes per timepoint increase the precision of Z-detection.

> multi image Z step - integer - used by the analysis
Step in Z between each Z-planes if multi-image > 1, in nm.

> multi image Z direction - text - used by the analysis
Direction of the scan when acquiring several Z-planes per timepoint. Needs to be 'upward' or 'downward'.

> objective magnification - text - not used by the analysis
Identify the objective. 100X or 63X are strongly recommended.

> scale pixel per um - float - used by the analysis
Scale of the objective in pixel per micron. Proceeding to a manual calibration when using a new microscope is very strongly recommended.

> objective immersion - text - not used by the analysis
Identify the immersion liquid. 'oil', 'air' or 'water'.

> optical index correction - float - used by the analysis
Ratio of the optical index of the cell medium over the index of the immersion liquid. Crucial for Z-distances computation. When using an oil-objective and typical DMEM, optical index correction = 1.33/1.52 = 0.875. When using an air-objective and typical DMEM, optical index correction = 1.33/1.00 = 1.33. 

> microscope software - text - used by the analysis
Identify the software used for the image acquisition. Can be useful in the analysis if the data acquired from this software need a specific pre-processing.

> loop structure - text - used by the analysis
Identify a periodicity of events during the image acquisition. Example: acquire 1 image in epifluorescence every 300 images. Example 2: acquire a specific Z-plane once every 30 images. Currently not active in the simplified code, please contact me if it becomes useful.

> comments - text - not used by the analysis
Write notes for yourself.

Created on Thu Mar 2 2023
@authors: Joseph Vermeil
